## Database Systems - Overview
### _Homework_

1.  What database models do you know?
    * Hierarchical (tree-like structure. ex. Windows Explorer)
    * Network (graphs)
    * Relational (tables)
    * Object-oriented
    
2.  Which are the main functions performed by a Relational Database Management System (RDBMS)?
    * Create, alter, remove tables. Add, remove, update data. All this can be sumed up by the term "DB management".
    
3.  Define what is "table" in database terms.
    * A table is combination of rows and collumns. In it every row has a strict structure.
    
4.  Explain the difference between a primary and a foreign key.
    * Primary key (PK) identifies each record(row) in a table.
    * Foreign key (FK) is a Primary key from another table. It is used to identify a record from that other table.
    
5.  Explain the different kinds of relationships between tables in relational databases.
    * One-to-One: a record from table A is present only once in table B and vice versa.
      - Ex. Spouses. You may or may not be married. If you are, both you and your spouse have only one spouse.  
    * One-to-Many: a record from table A can be present as many records in table B.
      - Ex. A child can have only one mother. But the mother can have many children. 
    * Many-to-Many: many records from table A can be present as many records in table B. (Used with a third table.)
      - Ex. You can have many siblings. And each of them has many siblings.
    
6.  When is a certain database schema normalized? What are the advantages of normalized databases?
    * A database schema is normalized when there are no duplicating records in it. To do that, all the duplicating records
    are extracted in another table with its own Primary key.
    * The advantages are no duplicates and reduced size of the DB. 
    
7.  What are database integrity constraints and when are they used?
    * Integrity constraints are a set of rules which are applied to guarantee correctly ordered and valid records.
      - Primary key constraint: checks if each record as a unique PK.
      - Foreign key constraint: checks if a record from a table A is present in table B.
      - Unique key constraint: checks if each record has a unique ID. That ID is different from the Primary key.
      - Check constraints: applies validation before attempting to save a record in a table.
    
8.  Point out the pros and cons of using indexes in a database.
    * Pros:
      - Indexes allow for faster searching.
    * Cons:
      - Take up more space as each index must be generated and stored.
    Ex. Windows' indexing for files and folders on disk.
    
9.  What's the main purpose of the SQL language?
    * The main purpose of SQL is to allow the user to write queries and perform operations on databases.
    
10.  What are transactions used for? Give an example.
    * Transactions are a set of queries which act as a single query, as a whole.
    Either all of the queries in the set get performed (succesfully!) or none.
    Ex. We want to transfer money from one bank account to another. The transaction is composed of the following steps:
    1) Verify sender and beneficiery details.
    3) Check balance
    2) Execute transfer request
    4) Update balance

11.  What is a NoSQL database?
     * NoSQL databases are non-relational. That means that they do not use tables. Instead data is stored in documents.
     
12.  Explain the classical non-relational data models.
     * Document model: uses a set of documents, mainly in JSON format.
     * Key-value model: uses a set of key-value pairs
     * Hierarchical key-value: uses a hierarchy of key-value pairs
     * Wide-column model: uses a key-value model with schema
     * Object model: uses a set of OOP-style objects

13.  Give few examples of NoSQL databases and their pros and cons.
    Ex. CouchDB and MongoDB use documents in JSON format.
    * Pros:
      - support CRUD(Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations.
      - support indexing, queries
      - they're fast and scalable
    * Cons:
      - no relations.
      - no strongly-defined structure.
